# Simple Transport Model Demo in MESA

Created by:
Yilin HUANG

Email:
y.huang@tudelft.nl

Edited by:

|        Name        | Student Number |
|:------------------:|:---------------|
| Niels van den Dool | 5026717        |
|    Eli Kapteijn    | 6587380        |
|    Nick Schreurs    | 6581951        |
|    Lieke Wahlen    | 5179564        |
|    Mirte Wildeboer    | 5326265        |


Version:
1.1

## Introduction

A simple transport model demo in MESA for EPA133a Advanced Simulation course Assignment 2.

## How to Use

- Create and activate a virtual environment

In PyCharm, you can create a virtual environment by following the steps below:

    1. Open the project in PyCharm
    2. Go to Settings -> Project: epa133a -> Python Interpreter
    3. Click "Add Interpreter"
    4. Select "Add Local Interpreter"
    5. Select Virtualenv Environment
    6. Select New environment
    7. Select Base interpreter as Python 3.11
    8. Click OK and also close the settings with OK

Afterwards, you should see "Python 3.11" (epa133a) in the bottom-right corner of the PyCharm window.
To install the requirements, open a terminal/command line window in PyCharm and type:

```
    $ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

- Launch the simulation model with visualization

```
    $ python model_viz.py
```

- Launch the simulation model without visualization

```
    $ python model_run.py
```

## Files

- [model.py](model.py): Contains the model `BangladeshModel` which is a subclass of Mesa `Model`. It reads a `csv` file with specific format for (transport) model generation. (See the README in the `data` directory for data format.) In addition to dynamic behavior, each model component instance (i.e., object) also has geo-location variables, i.e. latitude and longitude in Decimal Degrees (DD). The given bounds of the latitude and longitude of all objects are translated into the bounds of the HTML5 canvas, which is used in case the visualization is launched.

  In this file, the model was adjusted so it ran 8 scenarios for 10 seeds each, while collecting the average delay time using the built-in DataCollector from mesa.

- [components.py](components.py): Contains the model component definitions for the (main) model. Check the file carefully to see which components are already defined.

  In this file, the several components were modified so bridges could have a random delay time.

- [model_viz.py](model_viz.py): Sets up the visualization; uses the `SimpleCanvas` element defined. Calls the model. Run the visualization server.

  In this file, you define simple visualization.

- [model_run.py](model_run.py): Sets up the model run (conditions). Calls the model. Run the simulation without visualization.

  In this file, you define model batch runs.

- [ContinuousSpace](ContinuousSpace): The directory contains files needed to visualize Python3 Mesa models on a continuous canvas with geo-coordinates, a functionality not contained in the current Mesa package.

  Editing files in this directory is NOT recommended for our assignment.

- [ContinuousSpace/SimpleContinuousModule.py](ContinuousSpace/SimpleContinuousModule.py): Defines `SimpleCanvas`, the Python side of a custom visualization module for drawing objects with continuous positions. This is a slight adaptation of the Flocker example provided by the Mesa project.

  Editing this file is NOT recommended for our assignment.

- [ContinuousSpace/simple_continuous_canvas.js](ContinuousSpace/simple_continuous_canvas.js): JavaScript side of the `SimpleCanvas` visualization module. It takes the output generated by the Python `SimpleCanvas` element and draws it in the browser window via HTML5 canvas. It can draw circles and rectangles. Both can have text annotation. This file is an adaptation of the Flocker example provided by the Mesa project.

  Editing this file is NOT recommended for our assignment.
